hey guys what's up if you've been
watching this channel for a while you've
heard me remark on the ways in which
making YouTube videos is fundamentally
different from writing an academic essay
or presenting your thoughts at an
academic conference and frankly I think
that YouTube has a lot of advantages
over that format yesterday I made a
video that was 24 minutes long a video
I'm not going to upload a video I'm
going to delete and it was I guess
objectively a good video it would have
worked well as an academic paper or a
lecture at an academic conference and
you know it kind of had that quality of
being prevaricate inge and reasonable
and representing various sides as if
they all have a point and this morning I
woke up and I was wondering why it was
that I was dissatisfied with that video
why it was I didn't want to upload it
and the truth is it wasn't really being
entirely honest with myself and it
wasn't really being entirely honest with
the audience the topic I want to discuss
in that video was the question of why it
is that veganism itself still has a
debatable and debated definition within
the movement why is it that we have many
different people who not only adhere to
this diet but are out there pounding the
movement building the movement from
different perspectives
working from a fundamentally different
vision of veganism and I think it's true
if you were going to present that in a
peer-reviewed paper or discuss at an
academic conference you would make it
seem that there are many different sides
to the issue and that they're all
somehow equally valid that's not what I
have to say what I have to say is I
didn't come up with my own approach to
veganism for the sake of being different
having a new idea or with the impulse a
painter might have to fill up the canvas
with something original and different
maybe just some of that painter hasn't
seen before I really came to my own
thoughts about veganism because in
surveying the existing literature and
looking at what else was going on in the
movement philosophically political and
otherwise I found it deeply flawed
deeply disturbing incoherent wrong
you know not just crazy in an inert
sense but so deeply wrong that it would
drive others crazy now what am I talking
about you can check out the book reviews
playlist on this channel you know I
deeply disagree with the social justice
approach of someone like Casey Taft and
I have a long I think reasonable video
which is titled veganism is not a social
justice movement explaining why my
definition of veganism is not based on
social justice concepts and I don't
think it's kind of fair or reasonable to
define Veena's mean that way I have a
book review dealing with a philosophy of
will kim luca it was not so well known
outside of canada i guess but he's a PhD
holding career academic who's been
advocating for veganism his entire life
he is in his way an influential author
and person in the movement and will kim
luca his paradigm is so called
citizenship paradigm so he is examining
animals as if there are citizens in our
society as if they are entitled to
things or engage in a social contract in
the same way the citizen is and by the
same token our society or our government
can require things of these animals so
to give an example of how this kind of
leads to madness
he believes that rats and cockroaches
and snakes all have a right to life that
their position within cities you know
the government is in no position to
exterminate them and on the contrary he
argues that the government ought to
educate people so that they become less
afraid of rats and snakes
he thinks that human beings have an
irrational fear of these animals that's
just based on a biblical culture like
because snakes are represented passively
into bible people are afraid of having
snakes living in their basement and
exterminate them for no reason seem for
rats and cockroaches and how about bed
bugs why don't we take it that far
he reasons in a sort of internally
consistent way that again leads to
madness he reasons that horses and cows
are part of this social contract where
our government owes horses and cows
unlimited free health care you know
unlimited veterinary care we would say
but that in return our society can
demand that they can
buuuut onto the same social contract so
he comes to the conclusion that's that
it's okay for vegans to ride horses
drink cow milk and eat chicken eggs
because that's how the these peoples
construe our society it's absurd
so he's vegan but his citizenship
approach to veganism leads to
conclusions that are under yet even on
the level of diet and they practice so
again I'm not you know making this about
a thin air that I think these these you
know definitions are are mad and really
lead to madness
now I've had many different videos
discussing what I think is wrong with
the approach of Gary Franchione a most
recently I put up a video called the
fundamental flaw with vegan abolitionism
and that's a philosophy that on the face
of it may seem appealing
well you just introduce it in a few
words or a few sentences but you
actually try to live with it you
actually dig around you look through in
a detail in a deep way and again I think
it is I think it is profoundly flawed
it's profoundly broken so I mean it is
true that in looking at the state of
veganism today in 2017 we have a number
of different definitions competing to be
the legitimate definition of veganism
and to they don't have a particular
author that are really worth mentioning
here one is the pet based paradigm the
ownership of pets dogs cats etc call it
the love love your pet paradigm or the
animal rescue paradigm and another is
the speciesism paradigm which guess we
should really say the anti speciesism
paradigm so the the love your pet
paradigm is basically reasoning that
says well the proper relationship to
humans and animals is the relationship
of a pet owner to a dog and then they
try to extend this to all animals so to
say that our society ought to treat all
animals whether cows or pigs or bears in
the same way that we treat dogs and cats
and you see this in vegan propaganda
being taken very seriously sometimes
where they show a piglet and they're
showing human beings caring for this
piglet the same way that would care for
a puppy right now I've had many videos
discussing this I think you have to look
at how that pig would live
nature in a pack of its own animals and
what the relationship would be between
animals and pigs in the forest in the
wild and ultimately long story short you
come to some deeply unsettling
conclusions that know in the same way
that castrating a dog to change its
behavior is wrong castrating a pig to
change its behavior that's what wrong
and trying to take what would be a wild
animal a pig that even if domesticated
would very gladly become a feral pig to
force it to be a plaything for human
beings to force it to live its life on a
couch you know lying around on a couch
while you watch TV
this is a deeply unnatural relationship
between animals and humans and a
depleted ethical one ultimately I don't
even care that it's unnatural I care
that it's unethical as I say this to me
is flawed both in principle and in
practice but this is a major paradigm
this is one of the most popular ways to
define vena's of the think of veganism
now again I don't have any particular
author for the anti species anti
speciesism approach to some extent Gary
Fran Sione's himself a representative of
that but I mean I've seen footage of
used footage on this channel of a
protest in Toronto where the animal
rights protesters were actively shouting
at people and repeating to people
conversationally also that their
fundamental belief was that speciesism
is the root of all other oppressions
that speciesism is somehow an irrational
prejudice similar to racism and that if
we could overcome speciesism racism
would also disappear that somehow people
just have an irrational prejudice
towards say a wild boar wild boars
unlike the cute piglet in pedo videos
will very gladly kill and eat a human
being in the wild and I've had people
write in to me I had that experience
being attacked by wild boars in the
force of the Philippines maybe in the
forests of Thailand other places were
they they go feral and really become a
menace I've also read about that in the
United States and Australia of course
can happen anywhere the idea that your
attitude towards a pig or a wild bear or
the snakes in your basement or the rats
of the cockroaches that all of this is
just an irrational prejudice that can be
removed and what will replace it when we
remove it is
loving relations between equals such as
today presumably unites black people and
white people in contrast to the
irrational racism of the past or in
contrast to the model of slavery of the
past again I think this is a deeply
flawed model this is an approach that's
wrong in principle and in practice the
same way that will Tuttle again I've
done a book review of will Tuttle will
Tuttle offers the promise that all
violence in the world will end if we
could remove the fundamental violence of
human beings killing animals now I don't
believe that and I think it's really
useful to talk about racism in context
where people aren't overly familiar with
it maybe you're watching this video in
Chicago when you're very familiar with
racism between black people and white
people well you have you given any
thought to racism in southern Cambodia
between Vietnamese people and Cambodian
people that that's a culture those are
two cultures that in many ways have a
huge advantage in terms of vegetarianism
they have deep roots in Buddhism
Theravada Buddhism especially it's quite
possible that in those cultures veganism
will now grow will become a bigger and
bigger part of their culture but let me
tell you something the Vietnamese are
not going to stop hating the Cambodians
and the Cambodians are not going to stop
hating the Vietnamese it's not gonna
reduce racism and it's not gonna remove
the fundamental causes they have from
being at war with each other they have a
long history of being being at war over
that border and if moving the border one
way or the other I find that incredibly
asinine and deeply flawed so my point in
this video is I didn't come up with my
own approach with what I call the
wildlife management approach there's a
playlist on this channel just talking
with the wildlife management approach I
didn't come up with it just to be
different I didn't come up with it just
have a new idea of the sake of having a
new idea I really came up with it
because the definition of veganism
itself that I saw my fellow vegans using
across the board in the academic
literature and just in street protests
in rhetoric and privately when people
talk to themselves
I found them deeply deeply flawed and
they'll both to be crazy in an inert
sense just evaluating the philosophy and
saying this is crazy
and also to really have very negative
effects on people that drive them crazy
you may think it's cute and harmless to
see a video of Gary Yourofsky
telling you that you should never kill
cockroaches that you should never kill
mosquitoes that you should never kill
bedbugs and I have a video on this
channel
criticizing Gary Yourofsky and his
claims that vegans should never kill
insects you may think that's cute it may
sound morally uplifting to hear this
kind of this kind of rhetoric but again
I actually think it's crazy when
regarding isolation and I think it
drives people crazy when they try to
live with it you've got one person who's
vegan and their roommate is a meat-eater
ridiculing them saying well you say
you're vegan but in reality you kill
insects and you kill cockroaches and
then to have that person that vegan
trying to articulate coherently what's
really an incoherent philosophy trying
to take the internal contradictions that
live with and put a good face on it and
present to meat-eaters that this is not
contradictory that this is the
philosophy that makes sense not only for
them personally and privately but for
the whole world that this is something
they can make a political mandate out of
to go ahead and change the world that's
putting vegans on a very very weak
footing and that is why ultimately you
know having done the reading having
really made a survey of what was going
on in the animal rights and vegan world
I rejected all those paradigms and
decided you know what we do need some
new ideas and long story short you can
watch the video that went up just before
this one which is titled I don't believe
in animal rights my own ideas are in
fact simpler and more flexible and in
that sense of the term more pragmatic
because they more respond to the real
circumstances that we live in in the
world around us they don't present us
with principles that are impracticable
and I note that the official definition
of veganism from the vegan society
includes that crucial word as far as is
possible and practicable so we have to
think about what's practical for
ourselves as individuals and for the
future of the movement